#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 1in
\topmargin 1in
\rightmargin 1in
\bottommargin 1in
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Dominic Hatch - Machine Learning CS349 - Final Project - 26 August 2020
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Introduction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In this project, we will explore whether there is a relationship between
 the rate at which a country gets new cases and the likelyhood any case
 is to die; and if so, what is this relationship.
 We will begin by looking at a simple correlation, then trying to see if
 a gradient descent can perform better.
 All code for this project can be found at ___.
 This directory also contains information about the testing set.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Statistical Check
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
First, we will approximate the rate of new cases with a logarithmic function,
 and see if there is any correlation to the average death rate of a country
 and the rate of new cases.
 This is likely to lack the granularity we are looking for, but might give
 some valuable information.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
To get our logarithmic function, we will simply take a linear approximation
 of the logarithm of the case numbers.
 Since case numbers should roughly follow a logistic function, expecially
 at the beginning of the pandemic, this linear approximation should be sufficien
t for now.
 We will then look for a correlation between the growth rate (or the first
 coefficient) of the function and the average death rate of the country.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Using the cross correlation from numpy.correlate(), we got a correlation
 of 
\begin_inset Formula $.25$
\end_inset

.
 This is quite low, but shows some promise.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Gradient Descent Check
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Now, we will see if we can learn a better model using machine learning methods.
 Here, we will reuse the gradient descent implementation from HW4.
 Instead of using the predict method, which returns effectively a boolean
 output, we will use the confidence method to approximate the death rate.
 We also normalize the imput numbers, to fit the range of expected values
 in the function
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Doing this provides a correlation of 
\begin_inset Formula $.0013$
\end_inset

, which I find to be impressively poor.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
After a few tweaks, however, we are able to see better results.
 By representing the change in case numbers with a simple 
\begin_inset Formula $0$
\end_inset

 or 
\begin_inset Formula $1$
\end_inset

 if the day-to-day rate has decreased or increased in the feature set, we
 can find a correlation of 
\begin_inset Formula $.34$
\end_inset

, which is sligtly better than the statistical check but still not indicative
 of a strong relationship.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Conclusion
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
After running these experiments, we can conclude that overall there is a
 very weak relationship between the growth rate of the number of cases and
 the death rate.
 Other methods may yield stronger results, but it does not appear that there
 is any strong relationship to be found.
 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
